docs/guide/installation.mdx, before:

# Installation

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme'

## Install the Package

<PackageManagerTabs command="install cssxjs" />

## Configure Babel

Add the CSSX preset to your `babel.config.js`:

```js
// babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true)
  return {
    presets: [
      'babel-preset-expo', // or your existing preset
      'cssxjs/babel'
    ]
  }
}
```

### Babel Options

The preset accepts these options:

```js
['cssxjs/babel', {
  // Platform: 'ios', 'android', 'web' (auto-detected in most cases)
  platform: undefined,

  // Force React type: 'react-native' or 'web' (auto-detected)
  reactType: undefined,

  // Enable caching library: 'teamplay' (see Caching guide)
  cache: undefined,

  // Transform pug`` templates (default: true)
  transformPug: true,

  // Transform styl`` templates (default: true)
  transformCss: true
}]
```

## Verify Installation

Create a simple component to verify everything works:

```jsx
// App.jsx
import { styl } from 'cssxjs'
import { View, Text } from 'react-native'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View styleName="container">
      <Text styleName="title">CSSX is working!</Text>
    </View>
  )

  styl`
    .container
      flex 1
      justify-content center
      align-items center
      background-color #f5f5f5
    .title
      font-size 24px
      color #333
  `
}
```

Run your app and you should see the styled component.

## Separate Style Files (Optional)

While inline `styl` blocks are recommended (easier composition, colocation with components), you can also use separate style files.

Files must be named with the `.cssx.styl` extension:

```
components/
  Button.jsx
  Button.cssx.styl    ← Will be processed by CSSX
  Card.styl           ← NOT processed (missing .cssx prefix)
```

Import styles in your component:

```jsx
import './Button.cssx.styl'

function Button({ children }) {
  return <button styleName="button">{children}</button>
}
```

### Metro Config for Hot Reloading (Optional)

If you want `.cssx.styl` files to hot-reload during development, add the Metro config:

```js
// metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('cssxjs/metro-config')

module.exports = getDefaultConfig(__dirname)
```

With an existing Metro config:

```js
// metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig: getExpoConfig } = require('expo/metro-config')
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('cssxjs/metro-config')

const upstreamConfig = getExpoConfig(__dirname)

module.exports = getDefaultConfig(__dirname, { upstreamConfig })
```

> **Note:** Metro config is only needed for hot-reloading separate `.cssx.styl` files. Inline `styl` blocks work without it.

## Web Support

CSSX works on web through [react-native-web](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/). If you're using Expo, web support is included automatically.

For custom webpack setups, ensure `react-native-web` is properly configured and aliased.

## TypeScript Support

CSSX is written in JavaScript but works seamlessly with TypeScript. The `styl` and `pug` template literals are typed to accept template strings.

For better IDE support with Stylus syntax, consider installing the Stylus language extension for your editor.

## Next Steps

- [Basic Usage](/guide/usage) - Learn how to use `styl` and `styleName`
- [Component Parts](/guide/component-parts) - Style child component parts
- [CSS Variables](/guide/variables) - Dynamic theming support

Commit message:

docs: update the web support section to mention pure react web support

docs/guide/installation.mdx, after:

# Installation

import { PackageManagerTabs } from '@theme'

## Install the Package

<PackageManagerTabs command="install cssxjs" />

## Configure Babel

Add the CSSX preset to your `babel.config.js`:

```js
// babel.config.js
module.exports = function (api) {
  api.cache(true)
  return {
    presets: [
      'babel-preset-expo', // or your existing preset
      'cssxjs/babel'
    ]
  }
}
```

The default options work for most projects. See [Babel Options](/api/babel) for advanced configuration.

## Verify Installation

Create a simple component to verify everything works:

```jsx
// App.jsx
import { styl } from 'cssxjs'
import { View, Text } from 'react-native'

export default function App() {
  return (
    <View styleName="container">
      <Text styleName="title">CSSX is working!</Text>
    </View>
  )

  styl`
    .container
      flex 1
      justify-content center
      align-items center
      background-color #f5f5f5
    .title
      font-size 24px
      color #333
  `
}
```

Run your app and you should see the styled component.

## Separate Style Files (Optional)

While inline `styl` blocks are recommended (easier composition, colocation with components), you can also use separate style files.

Files must be named with the `.cssx.styl` extension:

```
components/
  Button.jsx
  Button.cssx.styl    ← Will be processed by CSSX
  Card.styl           ← NOT processed (missing .cssx prefix)
```

Import styles in your component:

```jsx
import './Button.cssx.styl'

function Button({ children }) {
  return <button styleName="button">{children}</button>
}
```

### Metro Config for Hot Reloading (Optional)

If you want `.cssx.styl` files to hot-reload during development, add the Metro config:

```js
// metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('cssxjs/metro-config')

module.exports = getDefaultConfig(__dirname)
```

With an existing Metro config:

```js
// metro.config.js
const { getDefaultConfig: getExpoConfig } = require('expo/metro-config')
const { getDefaultConfig } = require('cssxjs/metro-config')

const upstreamConfig = getExpoConfig(__dirname)

module.exports = getDefaultConfig(__dirname, { upstreamConfig })
```

> **Note:** Metro config is only needed for hot-reloading separate `.cssx.styl` files. Inline `styl` blocks work without it.

## Web Support

CSSX is designed primarily for **React Native** and **Expo** projects. On web, it works seamlessly through [react-native-web](https://necolas.github.io/react-native-web/) — if you're using Expo, web support is included automatically.

### Pure React Web Projects

You can also use CSSX in pure React web projects (without React Native). Just add the Babel preset as shown above. If you use separate `.cssx.styl` files, configure your bundler (webpack, Vite, etc.) to watch for changes in those files for hot reloading.

## TypeScript Support

CSSX is written in JavaScript but works seamlessly with TypeScript. The `styl` and `pug` template literals are typed to accept template strings.

For better IDE support with Stylus syntax, consider installing the Stylus language extension for your editor.

## Next Steps

- [Basic Usage](/guide/usage) - Learn how to use `styl` and `styleName`
- [Component Parts](/guide/component-parts) - Style child component parts
- [CSS Variables](/guide/variables) - Dynamic theming support
