packages/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style/README.md, before:

# @startupjs/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style

Transform JSX `styleName` property to `style` property in react-native. The `styleName` attribute and syntax are based on [babel-plugin-react-css-modules](https://github.com/gajus/babel-plugin-react-css-modules#conventions).

## Information

This is the fork of https://github.com/kristerkari/babel-plugin-react-native-stylename-to-style

The differences are:

1. Support resolving multi-class selectors in CSS:

```jsx
import classnames from 'classnames'

function Button ({
  variant,  // [string] 'primary' | 'secondary'
  dark,     // [bool]
  disabled  // [bool]
}) {
  return (
    <Text
      styleName={classnames('button', [variant, { dark, disabled }])}
    >CLICK ME</Text>
  )
}
```

```sass
.button
  background-color: blue
  &.primary
    color: #ff0000
    &.disabled
      color: rgba(#ff0000, 0.5)
  &.secondary
    color: #00ff00
    &.disabled
      color: rgba(#00ff00, 0.5)
  &.disabled
    color: #777

.dark
  &.button
    background-color: purple
    &.primary
      color: white
      &.disabled
        color: #ddd
  &.disabled
    color: #eee
```

And what's important is that selectors` specificity is properly emulated. For example:

Styles for `.button.primary.disabled` (specificity *30*) will override styles of `.button.disabled` (specificity *20*),
even though `.button.disabled` is written later in the CSS.

This simple change brings a lot more capabilities in theming your components for a dynamic look.

2. Convert any `*StyleName` attribute to the according `*Style` attribute. This is very useful for passing the sub-element styles (which are usually exposed by react-native libraries) directly from CSS.

3. If the `styleName` value is an object or an array, automatically pipe it through the `classnames`-like library.

4. Support for multiple named css file imports is removed

## Usage

**WARNING:** This plugin is already built in into the `babel-preset-startupjs` and is included into the default StartupJS project.

If you want to use this plugin separately from StartupJS:

### Step 1: Install

```sh
yarn add --dev @startupjs/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style
```

or

```sh
npm install --save-dev @startupjs/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style
```

### Step 2: Configure `.babelrc`

You must give one or more file extensions inside an array in the plugin options.

```
{
  "presets": [
    "react-native"
  ],
  "plugins": [
    ["react-native-dynamic-stylename-to-style", {
      "extensions": ["css"]
    }]
  ]
}
```

### Plugin Options

#### `extensions`

**Required**

List of css extensions to process (`css`, `styl`, `sass`, etc.)

#### `useImport`

**Default:** `false`

Whether to generate ESM `import` instead of CJS `require`.

#### `parseJson`

**Default:** `false`

Whether the imported css is expected to be a JSON string or an object.
If this flag is specified then JSON string is expected and it will do `JSON.parse` on it.

#### `cache`

**Default:** `undefined`

Whether to use integration with some caching library. Currently supported ones:
- `"teamplay"`

#### `platform`

**Default:** `'web'`

Which platform is targeted for compilation. Supported ones:
- `"web"`
- `"react-native"`

## Syntax

## Anonymous reference

Anonymous reference can be used when there is only one stylesheet import.

### Single class

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

<View styleName="wrapper">
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

<View style={Button.wrapper}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### Multiple classes

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

<View styleName="wrapper red-background">
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

<View style={[Button.wrapper, Button["red-background"]]}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### Expression

```jsx
import "./Button.css";
const name = "wrapper";

<View styleName={name}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";
const name = "wrapper";

<View
  style={(name || "")
    .split(" ")
    .filter(Boolean)
    .map(function(name) {
      Button[name];
    })}
>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### Expression with ternary

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

const condition = true;
const name = "wrapper";

<View styleName={condition ? name : "bar"}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

const condition = true;
const name = "wrapper";

<View
  style={((condition ? name : "bar") || "")
    .split(" ")
    .filter(Boolean)
    .map(function(name) {
      Button[name];
    })}
>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### with `styleName` and `style`:

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

<View styleName="wrapper" style={{ height: 10 }}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

<View style={[Button.wrapper, { height: 10 }]}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

## ::part() selector

### Preprocess `part` attribute.

- Each `part` gets its styles from the `{part}Style` prop.
- `part='root'` is magic -- it's linked to the pure `style` prop.

Here is an example `<Card>` component which specifies its root container, title and footer as stylizable parts:

```jsx
// Card.js

function Card ({ title }) {
  return (
    <View part='root'>
      <Text part='header'>{title}</Text>
      <Text part='footer'>Copyright</Text>
    </View>
  )
}
```

**↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓**

```jsx
function Card ({ title, style, headerStyle, footerStyle }) {
  return (
    <View style={style}>
      <Text style={headerStyle}>{title}</Text>
      <Text style={footerStyle}>Copyright</Text>
    </View>
  )
}
```

### Preprocess `::part()` selector from CSS file to style any component which uses `part` attributes.

Following an example `<Card>` component above, we can call `<Card>` from the `<App>` and customize its parts styles:

```jsx
// App.js

import Card from './Card'
import './index.styl'

function App ({ users }) {
  return users.map(user => (
    <Card styleName='user' title={user.name} />
  ))
}
```

```styl
// index.styl

.user
  margin-top 16px

  &:part(header)
    background-color black
    color white

  &:part(footer)
    font-weight bold
```

Commit message:

feat(babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style): Support compiling css file imports in Babel itself

packages/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style/README.md, after:

# @startupjs/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style

Transform JSX `styleName` property to `style` property in react-native. The `styleName` attribute and syntax are based on [babel-plugin-react-css-modules](https://github.com/gajus/babel-plugin-react-css-modules#conventions).

## Information

This is the fork of https://github.com/kristerkari/babel-plugin-react-native-stylename-to-style

The differences are:

1. Support resolving multi-class selectors in CSS:

```jsx
import classnames from 'classnames'

function Button ({
  variant,  // [string] 'primary' | 'secondary'
  dark,     // [bool]
  disabled  // [bool]
}) {
  return (
    <Text
      styleName={classnames('button', [variant, { dark, disabled }])}
    >CLICK ME</Text>
  )
}
```

```sass
.button
  background-color: blue
  &.primary
    color: #ff0000
    &.disabled
      color: rgba(#ff0000, 0.5)
  &.secondary
    color: #00ff00
    &.disabled
      color: rgba(#00ff00, 0.5)
  &.disabled
    color: #777

.dark
  &.button
    background-color: purple
    &.primary
      color: white
      &.disabled
        color: #ddd
  &.disabled
    color: #eee
```

And what's important is that selectors` specificity is properly emulated. For example:

Styles for `.button.primary.disabled` (specificity *30*) will override styles of `.button.disabled` (specificity *20*),
even though `.button.disabled` is written later in the CSS.

This simple change brings a lot more capabilities in theming your components for a dynamic look.

2. Convert any `*StyleName` attribute to the according `*Style` attribute. This is very useful for passing the sub-element styles (which are usually exposed by react-native libraries) directly from CSS.

3. If the `styleName` value is an object or an array, automatically pipe it through the `classnames`-like library.

4. Support for multiple named css file imports is removed

## Usage

**WARNING:** This plugin is already built in into the `babel-preset-startupjs` and is included into the default StartupJS project.

If you want to use this plugin separately from StartupJS:

### Step 1: Install

```sh
yarn add --dev @startupjs/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style
```

or

```sh
npm install --save-dev @startupjs/babel-plugin-rn-stylename-to-style
```

### Step 2: Configure `.babelrc`

You must give one or more file extensions inside an array in the plugin options.

```
{
  "presets": [
    "react-native"
  ],
  "plugins": [
    ["react-native-dynamic-stylename-to-style", {
      "extensions": ["css"]
    }]
  ]
}
```

### Plugin Options

#### `extensions`

**Required**

List of css extensions to process (`css`, `styl`, `sass`, etc.)

#### `useImport`

**Default:** `false`

Whether to generate ESM `import` instead of CJS `require`.

#### `compileCssImports`

**Default:** `true`

Whether to pre-process the css file imports, like `import './index.styl'` by this babel
plugin itself, instead of passing it further to the bundler to compile.
Note that if Babel is responsible for compiling these files then the changes in then
are not gonna be reactive and to see changes made to the separate CSS file
you would need to restart the whole bundling with an option to clear the Babel cache.

Storing styles in separate files should be avoided though, you should try to only
use it when importing some 3rd party libraries or for you global theme definitions,
so these files shouldn't frequently change.

#### `cache`

**Default:** `undefined`

Whether to use integration with some caching library. Currently supported ones:
- `"teamplay"`

#### `platform`

**Default:** `'web'`

Which platform is targeted for compilation. Supported ones:
- `"web"`
- `"react-native"`

## Syntax

## Anonymous reference

Anonymous reference can be used when there is only one stylesheet import.

### Single class

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

<View styleName="wrapper">
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

<View style={Button.wrapper}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### Multiple classes

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

<View styleName="wrapper red-background">
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

<View style={[Button.wrapper, Button["red-background"]]}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### Expression

```jsx
import "./Button.css";
const name = "wrapper";

<View styleName={name}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";
const name = "wrapper";

<View
  style={(name || "")
    .split(" ")
    .filter(Boolean)
    .map(function(name) {
      Button[name];
    })}
>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### Expression with ternary

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

const condition = true;
const name = "wrapper";

<View styleName={condition ? name : "bar"}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

const condition = true;
const name = "wrapper";

<View
  style={((condition ? name : "bar") || "")
    .split(" ")
    .filter(Boolean)
    .map(function(name) {
      Button[name];
    })}
>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

### with `styleName` and `style`:

```jsx
import "./Button.css";

<View styleName="wrapper" style={{ height: 10 }}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓

```jsx
import Button from "./Button.css";

<View style={[Button.wrapper, { height: 10 }]}>
  <Text>Foo</Text>
</View>;
```

## ::part() selector

### Preprocess `part` attribute.

- Each `part` gets its styles from the `{part}Style` prop.
- `part='root'` is magic -- it's linked to the pure `style` prop.

Here is an example `<Card>` component which specifies its root container, title and footer as stylizable parts:

```jsx
// Card.js

function Card ({ title }) {
  return (
    <View part='root'>
      <Text part='header'>{title}</Text>
      <Text part='footer'>Copyright</Text>
    </View>
  )
}
```

**↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓ ↓**

```jsx
function Card ({ title, style, headerStyle, footerStyle }) {
  return (
    <View style={style}>
      <Text style={headerStyle}>{title}</Text>
      <Text style={footerStyle}>Copyright</Text>
    </View>
  )
}
```

### Preprocess `::part()` selector from CSS file to style any component which uses `part` attributes.

Following an example `<Card>` component above, we can call `<Card>` from the `<App>` and customize its parts styles:

```jsx
// App.js

import Card from './Card'
import './index.styl'

function App ({ users }) {
  return users.map(user => (
    <Card styleName='user' title={user.name} />
  ))
}
```

```styl
// index.styl

.user
  margin-top 16px

  &:part(header)
    background-color black
    color white

  &:part(footer)
    font-weight bold
```
